blockbuster successful British
TV series
Downton Abbey begins its sixth
and final
season here on PBS next month we
got an
inside look at the show its
creator and
explore why so many americans
love it
music is instantly recognizable
as is
the tale that's Isis the dog
both part
of the opening credits but
blockbuster
British television drama Downton
Abbey
for the past five years the
Crawley
family and their servants have
entertained us and in January
the drama
begins its sixth and final
season on PBS
and one last chance for those
great
one-liners from the Dowager
Countess of
Grantham played exquisitely by
Dame
Maggie Smith point she was a
fish out of
water here is here invest and
surely one
final calamity to beset lady's
maid Anna
and her butler husband Bates the
mastermind of this runaway
success is
Sir Julian Fellowes also an
actor film
director and in his spare time a
Conservative member of Britain's
House
of Lords so down a be coming to
an end
is this are you saying goodbye
to a dear
friend or is it just if you
already
moved on
oh no I wouldn't say I don't i
mean
Downton has been an
extraordinary
milestone you spend a lot of
time in
this industry working very hard
on
things that don't do terribly
well or
public doesn't get them or
whatever and
then you suddenly ring the bell
it's
been fantastic
fantastic beyond belief becoming
the
top-rated PBS drama of all time
globally down airs in over two
hundred
and twenty countries with a
worldwide
audience of a hundred and twenty
million
people died everything so good
idea to
add state your welcome and it
seems
right to leave it was doing the
wrong
thing but it's been a happy time
I happy
time with roots in a book by
American
historian Carol Wallace author
of two
Marion english lord sir
julianne's
inspiration for the series when
he had
been asked by the producers to
write a
series about English aristocrats
he had
been reading to marry an English
Lord
and he said he thought it was
all very
well for these areas to marry
but then
what happened to them twenty
years later
when they were I think he put it
freezing in a house in Cheshire
aching
for a long island and that of
course is
cora Grantham's dilemma there
she is
right there
wallace's book tells the true
stories of
young American heiresses who
left the
USA in the late 1800's to shop
for
husbands in England their money
attracted down at the heels
aristocrats
who had titles and little else
what
would he have seen in these
stories in
this history I think what
julianne saw
the source of the drama is
exactly the
asymmetry of expectation what
these
American girls thought marriage
was
going to be and what it turned
out to be
and how their American
expectations kind
of trailed along with them and
formed
their relationships and their
ideas of
marriage as they would twenty
thirty
years later she is a fine
reputation
American Girl of Downton Abbey
Cora
Crawley Countess of Grantham is
played
by Elizabeth McGovern and he'd
be happy
to start anew to be undertaking
my
thoughts
he had an idea and you probably
not so
maybe I'll let you know if
anything
comes of it and how sad I do
feel to say
goodbye to people in houses you
know the
family it's it's been it's been
a
definite life-changing kind of
time for
all of us in what way
well we've all been through some
something that has felt like it
had a
big impact on our our personal
lives and
we've been through it together
the drama
began in 1912 the day after the
sinking
of the Titanic and has proceeded
through
ww1 the Spanish flu and the Jazz
Age
season six is set in 1925 and
opens to
find many formerly rich families
abandoning the live down
epitomizes
unable to afford the expense
like the
character she plays mcgovern is
married
to an Englishman and lives in
the UK how
is it different from other
television
series well the one
extraordinary
difference is that every word is
written
by one man I don't know of any
other
television show that works that
way and
and I did this day find it
absolutely
mind-boggling Julian Fellowes
did not
intend on being the sole writer
too I
was absolutely thrilled to get
other
people to do it but for some
reason
rather which I can't really
explain the
series seemed to have quite a
distinctive voice and we did try
at the
beginning to see if we could get
other
people to replicate that voice
and we
tried to the very good people
but it
seemed that if we wanted to
sustain this
particular voice it had to be me
it's
coming from his heart his
experience his
passion
PBS his masterpiece present
Downton
Abbey in the United States and
Rebecca
Eaton as the program's executive
producer has a lot of heart in
it
there's a lot of generosity is
your
characters who are taking care
of each
other and that is a lot of who
Julian is
we dealt with all the characters
very
evenly I don't want to be
grounded and
my husband we didn't say the
family of
the important characters and the
servants of the comic relief for
the
servants a gallant and suffering
but the
family is horrible
all of which would have been a
treatment
in an earlier period you give
equal time
to everyone so in a way you're
looking
at that age old struggle that we
are
dealing with today in 2015 about
inequality discrimination and
the rest
of it and you bring your own set
of use
is this business of entitlement
that a
child of the middle or upper
classes is
brought up to believe that
certain
things are sort of their right
that this
is the way they will leave
whereas other
people are brought up to feel
like
outsiders who your over-reaching
said
that's not for the likes of
Arsenal all
this stuff still goes on it
interests me
it shocks me and it it drives me
mad
when people try to pretend it
doesn't
exist because of course it
doesn't exist
for their there are millions of
people
who are being cheated of their
proper
destiny because he does still
exist
do you think down and
contributes to add
to the conversation to the
discussion of
that I hope it contributes I
mean I
think in our society
particularly for
the me me me generation there is
a kind
of underlying solipsistic in so
many
others that the only life that's
really
happening is sorrow and everyone
else's
life is sort of dependent on our
life
one of the important things
about child
drama is to remind the viewer
that
everyone is a hundred percent at
the
center of their own life there
is no
life being lived under that roof
that is
more or less important that Mary
or
Daisy what happens to them is is
just as
important and that's why we pass
equal
dramatic wait for all the
stories to
show that what do you think will
give
people great joy and excitement
and
surprise and in a good way and
what do
you think we'll see people sad
or
devastated or disappointed or IV
George
these questions because they're
always
asked in such optimism as if
there is
any chance that I'll answer I
mean was
there are some things in the
season that
will make people sad and there
are other
things that will make them happy
and
Maggie will say some things that
I hope
will make them laugh what should
fans
expect the audience expect I
would say
that the audience will feel
satisfied
that they've had a chance to say
goodbye
to every character in a
gratifying way I
think they'll feel whole and not
short-changed it's enough for me
that
people enjoyed it and they had a
thing
on Sunday night and they would
say to
each other
hurry up downtown starting in
five
minutes when I love that and I
think
that if we all managed to
produce a show
that families could watch
together and
argue over the water cooler in
the
office the next day that's
enough of an
achievement for me I don't need
to feel
that the world will never be the
same
again after denton
so what do you think I should do
what
you like london life
acted like a life and beginning
the
first Sunday in January fans can
lose
themselves in the lives of the
people
they've come to know as friends